---
program: LIHEAP
source_type: official_handbook
title: 609.2
chapter: 609.2
source_url: http://services.dpw.state.pa.us/oimpolicymanuals/liheap/609_LIHEAP_Crisis/609.2.htm
accessed_date: 2026-04-19
jurisdiction: Pennsylvania
---

# 609.2

An applicant must provide proof of at least one of the following situations: Â Â Â

Â LIHEAP State Plan Â§ 601.108

- The household is out of heating fuel or expects to run out of heating fuel within 15 calendar days. A verbal statement from the applicant must be accepted as verification of an emergency.

- The household has a termination notice from its utility company showing that service has been shut off or will be shut off within 60 days.

- The household is ineligible for a Crisis payment if the utility is regulated by a governing body such as the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) and the utility has not been granted approval to terminate services during the winter moratorium period (Dec.1 through March 31).

- The household may be eligible for a Crisis payment if the termination notice is from an unregulated utility and indicates the date that service will terminate.

- The household is ineligible for a Crisis payment if a non-regulated utility has restricted their use of the utility instead of terminating service.

- The household has no heat because the heat source is not working. For example, the furnace is broken or the pipes are frozen. This is a weather-related emergency; see Chapter 698, Weatherization .

N OTE: A water shutoff is not considered a fuel-supply emergency, and the household is not eligible for Crisis.

609.21 Termination Program

The Termination Program will operate from February 1 through March 31 each LIHEAP season. During the Termination Program, a termination notice from a PUC regulated utility dated February 1 or later will be considered valid as proof of a home-heating emergency. T he earliest allowable termination date for vendors who accept a Crisis during as part of the Termination Program will be 30 days following the resolution of the crisis, or May 1, whichever is later.

Updated August 15, 2025, replacing Â August 20, 2024
